
In using the elitronl, analysing is made easy like never before! Why? Thats because we included videos songs and conceptual arts to help you visualize the vivid painting that is the poem, hopefully understanding the purpose of the author.

Weve broken down the assimilatipn process into 9 simple parts for you.

1. Sound is crucial!
You can listen to a recital of the poem by pressing the play button in the elitronl poem interface. Just like any other work of art, poetry must be first appreciated before any analysis can be made. While youre listening, yiu shouldnt just listen blandly but look for sound modulations and the way in which the reciter presents the poem. Remember to make your little notes and read the poem out aloud just like the reciter. It may not seem entertaining but it sure did help lots and lots of people like you. So get out your headphones and start listening to those poems!

2. Inpressions are a part of the learning process!
While youre off listening to the poems it sure helps to make small notes about your first impressions about the persona and the poem itself. Now contrast or relate this to the impression the author wants you to have. We have included a conceptual art photo which is designed so that you can conceptualize the impression the author had in writing the poem. As you move along note each new impression; compare them to your old ones and the authors original message. We say such a thing because by looking at the poem fron various perspectives, you can appreciate the poem as a whole and fully understand the author from all vantage points.

3. The poem is expressed through words!
Every word in the poem is written with a literal and implied meaning behind it. We like to group all the main meanings in various poems under one heading called the theme. By making a list of all the words u know and dont know, you can greatly reduce the jargons which hinder your understanding of the poem. Things like slang, formal language and casual talk can be reduced to the main underlying message which the author wants to express in this way.

4. Finding the theme
We have included the theme in the elitronl. However to understand the theme, we recommend you to look at the poem as a whole and the ways the stanzas  interact.Start your search for the theme by looking at the title of the poem. It was probably carefully chosen. What information does it give you? What expectations does it create? Does the title tell you the subject of the poem Does the title label the poem as a specific literary type? Is the title an object or event that becomes a key symbol?

5. Tackle the tone!
The tone is the voice the author uses to say the poem. This is why it is also referred to as the voicing of the poem. We have included a whole interactive video explaining the tone so be sure to check it out! It is located at the very end of the page (interactive videos corner) in the poem interface. 

6. Literary devices
As you might have already made your list of words, make you highlight these words and phrases known as the literary devices!! These are very crucial for the poem because they are the techniques which the author has employed to get his point across. As with tone, we have made an interactive video so be sure to check it out in the interactive videos corner.

7. Mood?
In other words, how does this poem make you feel. Writers call this the mood. Unlike the tone, there is no concrete mood. Instead it depends on how YOU feel about the poem. This gives a rise to a whole set of words. So how do you know the mood? Remember the impressions you noted down? Refer to them; these impressions were WHAT YOU FELT WHEN READING THE POEM. All you have to now is get suitable words for these impressions and call them the mood. Simple isn't it now?

8. Real life application.
 The real life application is how the things you just learned can be applied to real life scenarios. We have included an interactive video dedicated to Real life application so be sure to check it out.

9. Consolidate!!!
Now take all what you've learnt about the poem and try to make sense out of it. Think about the previous 8 parts and assimilate them into yourself. Hopefully, you will now appreciate poetry and have powerful tools at hand for the exam. This part is the main part and you can't slack off now. The main purpose of consolidating the information given to you is to make it second nature to you the reader and master poetry. 

Are you done reading? Support us at <link>, we're humans too.
